# SideBySide
_A cross-platform command-line tool (Windows, Linux, macOS) for combining two portrait photos into a single landscape image. This is useful for digital photo frames that display vertical images awkwardly._

## 🧰 Features
* 💻 Runs on Windows, Linux (x64 & ARM) and macOS (Intel & Apple Silicon).
* 🖼️ Combines two portrait `.jpg` images into one seamless landscape `.jpg`.
* ➖ Adds an optional separator between images to enhance visual separation.
* 🎯 Automatically centers each photo within a black background.
* 📐 Resizes output to optimally fit digital photo frame displays.
* 🔐 Creates uniquely named files to prevent duplicates and maintain consistency.
* 🔀 Supports sorting photos by date taken/created or random order

## 📦 Download

Get the latest version from https://github.com/mrsilver76/sidebyside/releases.

Each release includes the following files (`x.x.x` denotes the version number):

|Filename|Description|
|:--------|:-----------|
|`SideBySide-x.x.x-win-x64.exe`|✅ For Microsoft Windows 10 and 11 ⬅️ **Most users should choose this**
|`SideBySide-x.x.x-linux-x64`|For Linux on Intel/AMD CPUs|
|`SideBySide-x.x.x-linux-arm64`|For Linux on ARM (e.g. Raspberry Pi)|
|`SideBySide-x.x.x-osx-arm64`|For macOS on Apple Silicon (eg. M1 and newer)|
|`SideBySide-x.x.x-osx-x64`|For macOS on Intel-based Macs (pre-Apple Silicon)|
|Source code (zip)|ZIP archive of the source code|
|Source code (tar.gz)|TAR.GZ archive of the source code|

> [!TIP]
> There is no installer. Just download the appropriate file and run it from the command line.

### Linux/macOS users

* You will need to install the [.NET 8.0 runtime](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/8.0/runtime).
* Don't forget to make the file executable: `chmod +x SideBySide-x.x.x-<your-platform>`

### Platform testing notes

* Tested extensively: Windows 11
* Tested moderately: Linux (ARM)
* Not tested at all: Windows 10, Linux (x64), macOS (x64 & Apple Silicon)

## 🚀 Quick start guide

To do

## 💻 Command line options

```
SideBySide <source dir> <destination dir> <output dimensions> <separator width> [options]
```

### Mandatory arguments

- **`<source dir>`**   
  Source directory containing `.jpg` or `.jpeg` images. Any images that aren't portrait will be ignored.

- **`<destination dir>`**   
  Destination directory for the generated landscape images. This directory must exist.

- **`<output dimensions>`**   
  The dimensions of the output image required in the format `[width]x[height]`. The width must be greater than the height.

>[!TIP]
>For the best results, set the output dimensions to the resolution of your digital photo frame.

- **`<seperator width>`**   
  The minimum size (in pixels) of the black seperator between the two images. Set this to `0` if you want the images to potentially touch each other.

>[!IMPORTANT]
>Black borders (to the left and right) will naturally appear depending on the aspect ratio of the images being sized. This option defines the _minimum_ number of pixels between two images.

### Optional arguments

- **`-v`, `--verbose`**   
  Output additional information to the screen to aid in debugging. This information is always included in the logs.

- **`-o`, `--overwrite`**   
  Overwrite any files with the same name already in the destination folder. By default, they will be skipped.

- **`-d`, `--delete`**   
  Delete all images generated by SideBySide (with the pattern `sideby-*.jpg`) in the destination folder before starting.

- **`-r`, `--random`**   
  Randomly order the photos rather than by date taken.

- **`/?`, `-h`, `--help`**  
  Displays the full help text with all available options, credits and the location of the log files.

## 🧩 How output files are generated

Each output file is uniquely named based on the two source image paths using a short, URL-safe SHA256 hash. For example:
```
sideby-Z9dcF2gqex7o7RGn.jpg
```
The name will always be the same for the same pair of images, even if run multiple times.

Changing the seperator width will not change the name. If you change the seperator width then you will need to use `--overwrite` to force the files to be overwritten.

## 🛟 Questions/problems?

Please raise an issue at https://github.com/mrsilver76/sidebyside/issues.

## 📝 Attribution
- Frame icon created by Freepik - Flaticon (https://www.flaticon.com/free-icons/frame)
- Image manipulation powered by ImageMagick - https://www.imagemagick.org

## 🕰️ Version history

### 0.9.0 (xx May 2025)
- Initial version.
